# Translations and localization

This website uses JSON files for UI translations. Everyone is free to contribute on various translations.

## How to contribute

For contribute you need a GitHub account, a Git client, which can be simply the official GitHub client or your favorite git client.

### Steps: 

1. You can contribute by making a fork of this project and then make your edits on this one. 

2. Cloned your forked repository,
    
    2.1. If you have to add a brand-new language, copy the `en.json` file and rename it like this: `langCode.json` where `langCode` is your language's ISO 639-1 or, wherever cannot be applied, ISO 639-2.
        
        You can consult this link for your ISO standard language code: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-2_codes

    2.2 Edit the language file with your edits.

    The language file looks like this:

    ```json
    {
        "HOME_TITLE": "Home",
        // other entries below
    }
    ```

    The string on left is the variable code, which **it must be kept as is**. What you want to translate is on the right after the `:`.

    Your result should look like this:

    ```json
    {
        "HOME_TITLE": "Schermata principale",
        // other entries below
    }
    ```

    ### IMPORTANT
    **REMEMBER TO CLOSE THE `"` BETWEEN YOUR TEXT**

3. Once some of your changes are done, make a pull request and in a matter of minutes you can test your changes on a dedicated instance of the website. However, **if you are attempting to add a new language, make a pull request first and one of the devs will enable it for you.**

4. Do your checks on that and then wait for the merge from one of the devs to the main website.

## Important Notes about Translations

There are some elements which cannot be translated or shouldn't translated at all because that's how it was meant to be

* `D4DB (仮)` : This is the website name (at the moment it's not confirmed).
* some more elements may be added in the future here.